hey guys if you've been following the
channel closely you know that we until
recently have had no furniture at all
and right now I'm sitting on the first
tables to arrive we have a few more
tables and chairs arriving in the days
to come just got a comment from realist
central on live stream having a
discussion here on you nail every so
often I post the link to you now on my
youtube channel and on Twitter and
anyone can join the conversation ask me
any questions to talk to me without even
paying the $1.00 to join my my patreon
if I did it as a patreon exclusive I'd
have very very few people participating
in the conversation in the audience it's
probably good way to invite people to
get more involved but yeah if anyone
complains I don't answer questions I
would sit back what are you talking
about I come on I come on livestream and
make myself available all kinds of
different ways to interact with the
audience and answer questions but no I
don't I don't waste time herding trolls
you might say so real a central asked
first a question he said what do you
think of speciesism yes this question in
general and I had to start my answer by
saying look this is a question if doc
doesn't past on my channel because I
have it's coming it's coming couple
different times I've talked about
speciesism and I've talked about the
ways in which I do actually find it a
counterproductive and confusing way to
present the argument for veganism in
terms of presenting veganism to the non
vegan public presenting the concept of
veganism to your parents or your
grandparents and I often find it
hilariously awful when people have
public protests where the slogans
they're chanting or craft into
speciesism and I've criticized some
specific protest some specific slogans
that way however I have a specific
footnote there of some importance that
once in a while speciesism actually is a
useful concept to employ just a couple
of video videos ago on this channel I
was talking about Hinduism and the
potential for Hindus to get more
involved with vegan activism and how
Hindus perceive vegan issues in a
culture that values vegetarianism but at
the same time valorizes drinking dairy
milk and eating cheese and that kind of
thing and I pointed out that within
India this is an example of speciesism
gone amok there they they valorize the
lives of cows but cows
only cows cattle boss indicus as a
species and that doesn't extend to for
example water buffalo so water buffalo
the buffalo of india we're talking about
here are a very similar species of
bovine they have somewhat different
horns but I mean this is you know from a
human perspective you say well how is it
possible that one of these animals is
considered sacred and given legal
protection and then another one is
exploited by animals killed for meat is
milked you know to produce milk and
cheese and so on you know from from a
not from a scientific perspective from a
late person perspective you look these
are just two types of cows this is this
is really speciesism this is ridiculous
we are you're attributing something to a
difference between species that doesn't
make sense
and once while there are discussions
like that about pigs versus dogs where
this idea of speciesism is is of some
utility what's the one uh but yeah I do
think it's a misleading optic and then
the very next comment from the same guy
oh I've never spoken to before in my
live stream realist central comments it
is rubbish so I'm quoting him quote it
is rubbish but over 90 percent of vegans
believe we are all equal humans and
animals
so again equality but if sometimes it's
a useful concept and sometimes it is not
normally when vegans really kind of
formally deploy the idea of equality
they then have to follow it up with so
many caveats they have to say well I
don't believe that a dog should be able
to get a driver's license I don't
believe this I don't believe that there
were a whole bunch of exceptions they
have to lay out that they mean equality
and only some very limited in a specific
sense and if that's the case then you
probably shouldn't be using the word
equality at all right you have a whole
bunch of caveat C or a whole lot of
explaining to do after you you use this
this concept then it's probably not that
contribution be using on a deeper level
I do think that a lot of what's going on
is really thinking of animal suffering
and animal rights in terms of the soul
in terms of the idea that human beings
have a soul animals have a soul and that
therefore they extend certain rights and
privileges and consideration humans and
they should also extend those to animals
because animals in human
are in in that respect equal that's
their ancient part of European culture
not only in terms of Christianity and
Judaism but even you go back to ancient
theories about the soul in Greece and
Rome in pagan Rome in ancient Athens you
get theorizing about that and
philosophizing about that so it's not
something new that just come out of
nowhere a lot of people reason about
humans and animals and relations between
them in that way and you know I've had
many videos here arguing from different
angles about the kind of ineluctable
contradictions that leads us into as
vegan activists not merely questions of
whether or not our rhetoric makes sense
but whether or not we are espousing a
philosophy that's actually crazy that's
actually insane it is impossible to grow
wheat without killing animals to grow
wheat and not just insects but really
highly intelligent mammals like
groundhogs and ground squirrels and
related animals so if you really do
believe that this groundhog has rights
equivalent to human rights if they
deserve have equal rights less if you
believe it has a soul and therefore is
entitled to this kind of consideration
for us then we have to stop farming
wheat and I'm not joking when I say that
we're vegan activists who devoted their
lives to vegan activism like Gary fronts
in a Gary Franchione a who pronounces
his own name francy own Gary there it's
on tape you can see video this of him
really being brought to a standstill by
very simple and earnest questions from
the audience about this kind of problem
like well if this is your approach if
this is a few human rights then how do
we deal with the fact that forming you
know farming wheat matters we're not
gonna stop farming wheat as vegans how
do you deal with exterminating
cockroaches that are in your in your
basement or maybe in your kitchen or
what have you you know or exterminating
rats and what have you how do we deal
with even the role of a park warden who
is surveying and responsible for you
know many species in a forest but he may
have to do invasive things in terms of
keep
you know within a national park keeping
the different populations healthy you
may have interventions against specific
species that are there numbers are
bringing out of control or dealing with
a specific outbreak of a disease the
long story short Park wardens do
sometimes kill animals and I'm not just
talking about hunting for profit here I
mean as absurd as it sounds for the
benefit of the forest as a whole they
may decide to kill wolves that may
decide to introduce more wolves to try
to control the deer population they make
those kinds of decisions and that's a
situation that is compatible with
veganism but not compatible with this
view of one animal one soul and is not
compatible with view that animals have
rights equal to human beings you're
getting into so many caveats it becomes
ridiculous
you're getting into the Cabot's of
saying animals have human rights except
when it's and can be in front of us you
want some animals to have some rights
some of the time and then you fall into
the trap of the first concept here
speciesism so now all of a sudden you're
arguing that dogs and cats have have
human rights or some human rights but
that the groundhogs don't etc etc so you
can see how quickly this this really
does lead us down a kind of rabbit hole
into into madness into impossible
contradictions and yes if our opponents
are astute they'll notice those
contradictions and though they'll debate
them with us or they'll ridicule us for
having them but it's also not just a
matter of how to present our arguments
it's a matter of whether or not our
beliefs are in fact crazy um so this has
been like a good recap video of things
that have been discussed in 800 videos
on this channel from different angles in
different elements ultimately my
conclusion here is that we give we treat
animals as if they have rights when they
are on a national reserve when they're
in a park when they're in the forest
when they're in the wilderness
wilderness that's been designated by
human beings with laws to be for the
animals and for the trees for that
ecosystem to exist and persist and
benefit and then we cease to treat them
as having those rights as soon as they
step over the dotted line on the map
possibly by no fault of their own as
soon as they go past the fence so for
example a bear
when it's inside national park should
indeed be a protected species but then
as soon as it claws its way through a
fence and comes into a dump or comes
into a person's home all of a sudden it
doesn't have those rights and so on so
that's ultimately a territorial ization
of animal rights and I've said in many
videos I could give a link below this
channel I do not believe in animal
rights as such I don't use any of those
phrases animal rights equality
speciesism to espouse in advance
my approach to veganism and the future
of this moment